### Reading this file:
I'm going to assume you know how to read a markdown file, but if you want to read this file in Termux on the phone itself so that you don't have to keep going back and forth between the phone and a computer, you can use [glow](https://github.com/charmbracelet/glow) to read it. It's in Termux's repository, so it can be installed by running `pkg install glow` in Termux, and then used by running `glow README.md`. Further instructions are, of course, in its readme and its manpage, but they shouldn't be necessary. 

### First-time Setup:
1. Install Termux on the phone
2. Install prereqs in Termux with `pkg install python android-tools`
3. Enable Android Developer Settings. This can be done by going to Settings > About phone and tapping "Build Number" 7 times

### Using the logger:
1. Connect adb in Termux to the phone using Wireless Debugging. Instructions for doing this can be found [here](https://gist.github.com/kairusds/1d4e32d3cf0d6ca44dc126c1a383a48d)
2. In Termux, `cd` to the directory where this program is stored, and then run `python ./log.py`
3. The program will ask you for a polling interval. This is how long the program waits after checking whether the phone is being charged before checking again. A lower value will result in more granular logs (although depending on whether the USB adapter you are using buffers power, this may not matter), but setting the value too low can result in the program slowing down or crashing all together. A value of 0.1 works for me, but you may want to experiment to find the optimal value for your use case.
4. Once all that is done, the logger will be running. It will log to the console and to a file whenever the phone's charging state changes. The phone's screen does not have to be on for this to work, and Termux does not have to be in the foreground. The program *should* still work while Termux is minimized and/or the phone's screen is off, although if you notice the program stopping or failing to log power events while this is the case, you may want to disable battery optimization/battery restriction for Termux.
5. To stop the logger, simply ctrl+c it. Termux provides a toolbar above the normal Android keyboard that allows you to press buttons like ctrl and the arrow keys, although if you don't want to use this for whatever reason I'd recommend [Hacker's Keyboard](https://github.com/klausw/hackerskeyboard).

**NOTE:** This program requires the phone to have a WiFi connection, but internet is not required.

### Viewing the logs:
The logs generated by `log.py` are stored as a list of tuples, each containing a timestamp in seconds since the Unix Epoch, and a boolean representing whether or not the device is being charged. To convert this into a more human-readable format, run `python ./prettify.py`. This will call `aggregate.py` to collect all the log files (a new one is generated each time the logger is run) into one file. Then, `prettify.py` generates 2 text files, `humanLog.txt` and `log.txt`. Both files represent the same data, but `humanLog.txt` is easier to read, whereas `log.txt` just contains the time and powerstate for each power event.  
  
**WARNING**: Do not delete the logs in `./powerevents/` after running `prettify.py` or `aggregate.py`. Although these scripts aggregate the logs into one file, they overwrite that file each time they are run, rather than just appending to it.

### Extracting the logs:
Because of the way Android handles app storage, it's a bit of a pain to move files in and out of Termux. There are 2 ways of doing this that I'd recommend. 
1. Use `scp` on another device. You should be able to find dozens of guides for this online (it's basically the same as using `scp` to copy files from any other device), assuming you don't already know how to do it yourself, so I won't bother putting instructions here. The main things you have to know are that Termux doesn't have a password configured by default, so you have to set one by running `passwd`, and that because without rooting the phone you can't use `sudo` the default ssh port of 22 won't work; you'll have to specify a different port above 1024.
2. Just copy them out using Google Drive or Dropbox or a USB stick. This seems like the obvious solution, but it's made more difficult by the fact that no file managers on Android can see the files in Termux (at least AFAIK), so you'll have to copy the logs out into the main Android FS. This can be done by first running `termux-setup-storage`, which will create a directory named `storage` in the Termux home directory. This directory contains symlinks to the various folders in Android's filesystem, so you can just copy the log files into the Downloads or Documents folder using `cp` or a text-based file manager of your choice (I personally prefer Midnight Commander, which can be installed by running `pkg install mc`).